hey everyone this is Phil Abner from
video school online.com and today we are
going to be looking at how baseball
works and this is part of a complete
course diving into how to watch baseball
and how to become a fan of baseball and
everything you need to know about how
baseball works but this is just a quick
overview and it might get a little crazy
but let's get straight to it okay so the
basic premise of the game is that you
have two teams that each have nine
players and whoever scores the most runs
wins so runs are like points how is it
set up well the defense plays out in the
field and they are situated in the field
like so now they can move around a
little bit but this is basically where
they stand
you have your outfielders in the
outfield left field center field right
field then you have your players in the
infield so first base second base third
base and shortstop in the middle between
third base and second base so that's
another good point is that this is first
base this is second base this is third
base and this is home plate okay so now
that's the defense the offense one at a
time they go up to the plate home plate
and they are trying to bat they are
trying to hit the ball into the field
and they are trying to get on base so if
they hit the ball say they hit the ball
into the field they are able to run to
first base okay so they have to run to
first base touch first base and then
only after they touch first base they
can run to second base and then after
they touch second base to third after
they touch third base they can go home
and if they get all the way to home they
score a run or a point
eh but it's not so easy because while
you're hitting the ball into the
outfield well first of all the pitcher
is throwing 95 to 100 mile-per-hour
fastballs past you and it's really hard
to to hit
they throw balls that curve that spin
that dip duck fly curry do crazy things
so it's first of all it's hard to hit
the ball so they're trying to get you
out and if they get the ball past you at
the right spot or you swing and miss
three times that's an out but say you do
hit it in the outfield the players are
trying to catch the ball and then throw
it to first base before you get there or
to whatever base that you are going to
to and they're trying to get the ball
there before you so either they get the
ball to the base before you or they tag
you with the ball so if they have the
ball in their glove or in their hand
they can tag you with it and you are out
now there's lots of different rules that
go into this and there's different ways
of getting people out and it's not
always the case that they just have to
get the ball to the base before you and
then there will be being out but that's
going into too much detail for this
quick overview so meanwhile the defense
is trying to get you out and if they get
three outs then that means they get to
go up to bat and they get to try to hit
and score runs okay so that's basically
the premise of baseball the sport now
let's talk about the game for a minute
the game is divided into nine innings
okay so you have one two three four five
six seven eight and nine nine innings
they're basically like periods
it's just segmenting the game in a way
that makes sense and in each inning
there are two hats one where the offense
is on or one where one team is on
offense and the other where the other
is on offense it changes from one inning
one happening to the next happening when
one team the team that's on defense gets
three out okay and until they get three
outs your team can bat and get on base
get hit and score runs at the end of the
game the score is tallied and whoever
has more runs wins the game if the game
is tied after nine innings you keep
playing until whoever scores more at the
end of a full inning wins alright now
for those of you who know baseball you
know there's a lot more rules that
basically erase everything I just said
or there addendums and different
situations that change everything but
this is the basics of baseball I hope
you enjoyed this chalkboard lesson if
you want more of this and you want to
dive deeper into the sport of baseball
continue watching my free lessons and
please check out the full course you can
find out more on the YouTube channel you
can find it out more on video school
online.com or my udemy profile page
thanks a lot and we'll see you in the
next lesson bye
